# Introduction #
The aim of this project is design and development of a tool to help software engineers in design and cost estimation of software projects. The tool has two main functionalities. First one is to design a set of special diagrams named **SMD**, from the specification; the second one is estimation of the cost of the project based on the module and integration cost estimates provided by the use, and taking into account some project specific factors such as team quality, and training cost.
# Brief Description #
_**SMD Studio**_ is a graphical design tool that allows the user to design **SMD** diagrams; these diagrams can be saved and loaded from data files which are in **XML** format. _**SMD Studio**_ gathers information about the software modules and their integration which can be used to calculate the project cost considering the training cost, and team quality. In contrary of old techniques of software estimation which use different attributes of the software, historical data and complex algorithms for calculating the cost estimation; the algorithm used in _**SMD Studio**_ receives the data directly from the user. The most inner modules (leaf modules) in the **SMD** and the transactions between the states which represent the integration have the minimum possible implementation complexity which makes them reasonably easy to estimate for the professional designing the software. This method is considered to have several advantages to the traditional methods:
  * **Project specific approximation:** cost estimation varies between different projects although the technologies might be the same. Deployment environment, inner complexity of the modules, and business logic are different from project to project, and cannot be parameterized to give automatic cost estimation. So the best way to overcome this problem is to use a professional who is familiar to the environment and application modules to estimate the cost for specific modules.
  * **Lack of historical data:** as explained before, with new technologies every day, it is extremely hard to estimate project cost with historical data. So it is better to have the cost approximation by a professional according to the understanding he/she has from the technologies, combined with the provisional training cost.
  * **Possibility of using other methods and customization:** the user can use the tool customized to its estimation preferences, and make use of any other estimation method (if preferred) to calculate the cost estimation for each module.
## [Run SMD Studio now!](http://smd-studio.googlecode.com/files/SMDStudio.jnlp) ##
# Worked Example #
As am example consider the development of software which can be introduced into lecture theatres, whereby students use their own mobile phones as a keypad to provide immediate feedback to questions during lectures, thus enabling lecturers to judge students’ understanding, provide immediate feedback and adapt the lecture as appropriate to students needs.
The project was using client server architecture, with a single PC as the server and several handsets as the clients. Java™ technology was used for the programming on both sides to enable portability and platform independency of the application on the server side, and J2ME was used as a proper technology for the client side. Bluetooth technology was used to enable communication between these devices as it was the most appropriate communication technology available on most of the handsets and was easy to activate on the server.

## SMD Design ##

The project consists of a client, a server, and an independent exam creator. Where the exams created in the exam creator should be loaded in the server; the questions will then be sent to the clients; and clients should answer the questions and send the result back to the server.
The Bluetooth Server module in this model is so general and can be divided into several inner modules. Such as ‘File manager’ module which is responsible for loading the exam files to the server; a ‘Question view’ module which shows the loaded questions and allows the user to broadcast them; and a ‘Feedback’ module which shows the results and allows the user to end the question.

SMD diagrams use state diagram and Venn diagrams in the special case that the union of all most inner modules themselves show all the functionalities of the application in detail, while the most outer modules show the functionality of the application in general. As one may have noticed, SMD diagrams does not have start state and end state as in conventional X-Machines, and state transition diagrams. This is because nowadays in most of the design methods and architectures the user interface allows different functionalities to be preformed concurrently, and allow the user to end the application in almost any state.
## SMD and Software Measurement ##
SMD can be described as a set of all the system’s functionalities where modules which are in the lower level are less general as their parent module, and so have less complexity for the implementation. These properties make the most inner modules (Leaf Modules) easier to estimate. The relations between modules in all stages can be used to measure the integration cost these modules; in this way we measure the integration cost of the functional units of the application, not only in the smallest modules but between the modules with all levels of complexity.
Let’s consider the Bluetooth Server module from the previous example; as shown in Figure 7, each of the leaf modules in this module are estimated with a number displayed on the upper right corner of the module; sum of these estimates together with the estimated for the transitions result in the total development cost of this module which is quite hard to estimate directly. If one of the leaf modules is hard to be measures in the estimation process, this shows that the module is still complex to be a leaf module and should be broken done into simpler modules.